Add email link same device/browser setting docs (#1044)
clerk/clerk-docs: docs/security/email-link-protection.mdx

---
title: Email Link Protection

> description: Protect email link sign-ins and sign-ups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to protect email link sign-ins and sign-ups.
```

---

> # Email Link Protection

Reviewer 2: Is **Email Link Protection** going to be the name of the feature and the exact name using in the Dashboard? And will it be fully capitalized in the Dashboard as well?

If so, please use [sentence-casing](https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/blob/main/STYLEGUIDE.md#15-use-sentence-case-for-titles) for headings!

```suggestion
# Email link protection
```

Author: This naming isn't going to appear directly in the dashboard, here's a preview of what the UI will look like (it's awkwardly in two places, but this is the best we can do now without a larger dashboard page refactor):

https://github.com/clerk/clerk-docs/assets/27433835/e0fe431d-a1be-4d5b-a278-c0084b9ffd5e

Clerk provides an additional setting to improve security for email link sign-ins and sign-ups. When this setting is enabled, only email links opened on the same device and browser that a sign-in or sign-up was initiated on will successfully authenticate the user.

> Enabling this protection means that the following behavior cannot happen:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enabling this protection means that the following scenario cannot happen:
```

> * A malicious actor knows the email of a user and requests an email link to sign-in or sign-up.
> * The user opens the email and clicks the link without thinking, or the user's email provider follows links in emails for phishing or spam protection.
> * The malicious actor is able to gain access to the user's account because the email link as been opened successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A malicious actor knows the email of a user and requests an email link to sign-in or sign-up.
1. The user opens the email and visits the link, or the user's email provider follows links in emails for phishing or spam protection.
1. The malicious actor is able to gain access to the user's account because the email link as been opened successfully.
```
Changed to an ordered list since it's a sequence of events, and changed "click" to "visit", as "click" is less accessible language

Enabling this protection means that the following scenario cannot happen:

1. A malicious actor knows the email of a user and requests an email link to sign-in or sign-up.
2. The user opens the email and visits the link, or the user's email provider follows links in emails for phishing or spam protection.
3. The malicious actor is able to gain access to the user's account because the email link has been opened successfully.

Disabling this protection means that your users are vulnerable to the scenario above, but they will be able to sign-in or sign-up with email link across devices and browsers. For example, initiating an email link sign in on a laptop and then opening the email link on a phone to sign in successfully.

With same device and browser protection on, users will see the following warning if an email link for sign-in or sign-up was opened on a different device or browser:

<Images
width={1512}
height={914}
src="/docs/images/security/email-link_require-same-client.webp"
alt="Error message displayed if email link is opened in a different device or browser if email link same device/browser protection is enabled"
/>

> To configure this security setting, go to [Email, Phone, and Username](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/email-phone-username) section of the Clerk Dashboard.
> 
> To enable this protection for sign-ups, go to **Contact information** > **Email address**. Open the modal and make sure **Require the same device and browser** is enabled under the **Email verification link** checkbox.
> 
> To enable this protection for sign-ins, go to **Authentication strategies** > **Email verification link**. Ensure **Require the same device and browser** is toggled on in the configuration modal.

Reviewer 2: Is there a way I can test this in the Dashboard? It's not currently there, and I don't see it in staging either.

```suggestion
To configure this security setting, navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/email-phone-username) and in the navigation sidebar, select **Email, Phone, Username**.

To enable this protection for **sign-ups**:
1. In the **Contact information** section, next to **Email address**, select the settings icon.
1. Under the **Email verification link** checkbox, ensure **Require the same device and browser** is enabled.

To enable this protection for **sign-ins**:
1. In the **Authentication strategies** section, next to **Email verification link**, select the settings icon.
1. Ensure **Require the same device and browser** is toggled on.
```

Author: It's enabled in staging now! https://clerkinc.slack.com/archives/CHZ1FBBEG/p1717534767333909

I also updated this section a bit. I realized the previous wording was implying the setting could be turned on for sign-ins _only_, for example, but it's the same setting for both sign-ins and sign-ups. You can't turn it on only for one or the other. Lmk what you think!

With same device and browser protection on, users will see the following warning if an email link for sign-in or sign-up was opened on a different device or browser:

<Images
width={1512}
height={914}
src="/docs/images/security/email-link_require-same-client.webp"
alt="Error message displayed if email link is opened in a different device or browser if email link same device/browser protection is enabled"
/>

To configure this security setting, navigate to the [Clerk Dashboard](https://dashboard.clerk.com/last-active?path=user-authentication/email-phone-username) and in the navigation sidebar, select **Email, Phone, Username**. This protection can be enabled for **sign-ins** and **sign-ups** in two ways.

Contact information section:
1. In the **Contact information** section, next to **Email address**, select the settings icon.
2. Under the **Email verification link** checkbox, ensure **Require the same device and browser** is enabled.

Authentication strategies section:
1. In the **Authentication strategies** section, next to **Email verification link**, select the settings icon.

> 2. Ensure **Require the same device and browser** is toggled on.

Reviewer 2: It's a checkbox instead of a toggle. Not sure why that decision was made - do we want to make those consistent in the Dashboard?

```suggestion
2. Ensure **Require the same device and browser** is checked.
```
